# system-analysis-and-design
Portfolio for CS-255-J5815 System Analysis and Design

Q: Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?

A: The project for this course was a system design for a client company, DriverPass. DriverPass wanted us to design a system that would allow them to offer training to student drivers to help them prepare for their local driving tests. This training would take the form of online courses and practice tests, as well as on-the-road training by driving instructors.

Q: What did you do particularly well?
A: I believe the strongest aspect of my work on the DriverPass project was in identifying requirements, and conceptualizing the implementation of those requirements.
Q: If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
A: I would like to revisit and revise the Business Requirements Document. It was completed early in the course, and does not conform to a unified style and organization as much as I would like. I think the document could be trimmed and better-organized for readability.
Q: How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
A: To determine the user's needs, we were provided with the transcript of an interview between the client and system analysts. The approach I took was to consider that transcript for what it was: a conversation. In a good conversation, the people involved aren't just taking turns speaking. Listening is an active process as well, and being able to give context, read between the lines, or add your own understanding and interpretation to what the other person is saying can result in far more effective communication. I took a similar approach here, by paying close attention to what the clients were saying, but also considering potential unspoken context, and trying to add my own insights when possible. Considering the user's needs is of critical importance when designing any system, for the simple reason that meeting the user's needs is the ultimate goal of every system design project. It doesn't matter how brilliant or efficient the resulting system is -- if the user's needs aren't met, then the system design has not succeeded.
Q: How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?
A: Though still in the early stages of developing the skillset of designing software, I would describe my approach so far as centered around the needs of the client/end user. Conceptualizing those needs and organizing them into system requirements provides a platform-agnostic framework for how the "to-be" system might operate. Then, it is a matter of translating that conceptual framework into actual hardware requirements and functional code. In the future, I would like to explore requirements collection techniques in more detail. In this course, we were provided a transcript. One day I hope to be more directly involved in the requirements-gathering process. That could take the form of individual or group interviews, JAD sessions, or simple observation of existing system processes. I believe I have a talent for interviewing and communicating with people, and I would enjoy the process of discussing user needs with potential clients.
